This study uses electroencephalography (EEG) to explore the pre-attentive processing of auditory stimuli with a systematic (stepwise) increase in linguistic complexity. Participants heard a train of similar stimuli with interspersed rare deviants that differed in pitch. Responses to the deviants were compared among non-speech complex harmonic waves and speech syllables. Syllables were generated using VocalTractLab [1], a software that allows for the synthesis of natural-sounding and highly controllable artificial speech. The complex waves were generated using Praat [2], their intensity envelopes and harmonic structure were matched to those of the syllables. Thus, the two stimulus types were acoustically very comparable, differing only in linguistic characteristics like presence/absence of modelled vocal tract and laryngeal influences. 

This folder contains the full manuscript of the proceedings presented at INTERSPEECH 2022 (Incheon, South Korea) titled "The effect of increasing acoustic and linguistic complexity on auditory processing: an EEG study" (Rana_Papa_&_Service_IS22.pdf). Additionally, examples of the stimuli generated for use within this experiment are provided in the folder titled 'Stimuli'. These stimuli comprise of two types of tokens: artificial speech syllables generated using a software that allows for the emulation of natural speech characteristics, and complex harmonic waves that were processed to match the syllables in terms of intensity envelopes and harmonic structure (with no speech content). 

For further information or enquiries, please contact Fareeha Rana at fareehasrana@gmail.com.

References
[1]	P. Birkholz, “Perceptual Optimization of an Enhanced Geometric Vocal Fold Model for Articulatory Speech Synthesis,” in Proceedings INTERSPEECH 2019, pp. 3765-3769, 2019.
[2]	P. Boersma, and Dr. Weenink, “Praat: Doing Phonetics by Computer (6.0.18) [Computer Software].” 2019.
